# Imager 0.35

Released 28 Jan 2001

- More makefile fixes, fixed a few signedness warnings.    Checked to see if it compiled cleanly on Solaris and HPUX.  Fixed a 5.004_04 warning and added more ENV flags for makefile.

## 0.35

- Fixed some compile warnings for various files under -Wall.  Added functionality for jpeg reading of seekable files, it's not  really working yet.  This version is pretty much *not* working.  Do not install unless you intend to do a lot of development.  Repeat - it doesn't even pass tests (but it compiles).  Ok now reading  jpegs works from scalars, my guess is that it also works from non  seeking sources such as sockets or pipes.

## 0.35

- Added the *right* patch from Tony which combines  the common code from i_readgif and i_readgif_scalar into  i_readgif_low.  Added tiff reading support through iolayer.

## 0.35

- Added tiff writing (no options) support through  iolayer.  Also made some small fixes for the iolayer reading  (was always doing two reads when one was needed).  Patched the  Imager::read() call so that it now uses a mixture of old and new  functions.  

## 0.35

- Fixed various gnu'isms in the c code (some bugs in the link list  implmentation).  Fixed missing #skip codes when gif format is not  present in any form.  Added fixes for 5.004_04 in the transform2 function.  Made sure it compiles cleanly with sun's cc.  Switched from a .jpeg  for transform2 check to a .ppm file so it runs when jpeg is not   present.  Added a test for tiff files in t10formats.t.

## 0.35

- Fixes to Makefile.PL.  Should find freetype includes on more  distributions now.  Ran tests on Solaris and Hpux, minor fixes.  Compiles with some warnings on with both hpux and solaris' cc.    Made some minor changes to the documentation.  Fixes to tiff.c log  code.

## 0.35

- Fixes 64 bit bug on freebsd.  While libtiff mirrors the effects of  lseek it's toff_t is a uint32, while lseek uses off_t which can be a 64  bit quantity.  Added the IM_LFLAGS environment variable to help  people with broken libgifs (that want to link with X).